Good morning.
Once again, it's a joy to have been in the house of the Lord with you already this morning.
And I pray that you've already been blessed by the presence of the Holy spirit.
I enjoy hearing you sing.
that it just makes my day to hear you sing last week, couple of weeks ago.
I was dealing with a bout of laryngitis, so I couldn't give you everything that I normally could give you, but so that was just the Lord, I believe, kind of shutting me up for a minute so that you guys can minister to me and be able to sing so that I could hear you be able to do that.
So at first I thought it was just awful that I couldn't speak and do what I wanted to, but then I realized that may have been God at work.
just being able to let me hear you minister to me.
We need that.
And I just believe that he enjoys hearing us praise and worship him.
Don't you think?
I know I enjoy.
So if I enjoy that, how much more is it?
the one that we're praising that he enjoys it.
And I just think that he does.
I just think about that.
And I just want to magnify and glorify him in every way that we possibly can here at Cornerstone.
So God bless you.
Last Sunday, we spent a few minutes about talking about having the right vision when it comes to serving the Lord.
And this was something that was laid on my heart.
And I believe that that is something that may have spoken to you.
We even talked about some of this in our men's ministry meeting.
this past week and I enjoyed talking about that and I think we're going to continue to do that.
There were six things that I gave you towards the end of that message and we're kind of taking those one at a time on Wednesday night to talk about how we can be having the right vision.
So we talked about many things and there was a few things also that we talked about that could be a hindrance to
our vision that we have.
You remember we talked about that, the vision hindrances that we run across.
But before we dig back into this, I just want to say this because I believe this with my whole heart.
I believe that this is a great time to be worshiping the Lord together here at Cornerstone.
I do.
And I don't say that lightly.
I don't just, not just trying to blow smoke your way.
I just want you to know that I honestly feel that way.
I believe God is moving.
I believe that He is setting the stage for what we could consider to be monumental movement of the Holy Spirit right here, beginning with us.
We're within here, but I believe that God wants to reach out so much further.
So He's building us.
He's building our spiritual.
He's building our physical momentum.
And I can see His hand on us.
And I just believe, as we say often here, that the best is yet
to come.
And I do believe that, and I hope that you do.
God wants us to have His best, doesn't He?
He wants us to have all that He has for us and His best.
And I believe that He is blessing us towards making these huge differences that we can make right here in Akin County.
So I don't have to tell you how excited I get
about that.
Hopefully you can see that on me this morning.
Well, back in 2022, some of you were here.
Some of you have come on since then.
I preached a series of messages on the seven churches in Revelation.
Some of you may remember these.
We talked about the church at Ephesus.
We talked about the church of Smyrna, the church at Pergamum, the church at Thyatara, the one at Sardis, the one at Philadelphia.
And there's another church that I want to dig back into today is the church over in Laodicea, that one.
So turn with me if you would.
We're going to the book of Revelation today, chapter three, and we're going to be reading together verses 14 to 22.
Again, Revelation chapter three,
verses 14 to 22.
Now as you're turning there, you may recognize this name of the church.
The name of this church, this church was one that was known as being lukewarm.
Everybody say lukewarm.
Known as being a lukewarm church.
So we're going to do our best this morning to look at this with a fresh set of eyes, a fresh
mind and a fresh heart as it relates to our vision right here at Cornerstone.
So if you found your place, please stand with me and let's read this together again.
It is Revelation chapter three, verses 14 to 21 or 22.
Here's what the word of God says.
It says, through the angel of the church in Laodicea, right.
Those are the words of the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the ruler of God's creation.
I know your deeds that you were neither cold nor hot.
I wish you were either one or the other.
So because you were lukewarm, neither hot nor cold, I am about to spit you out of my mouth.
You say I am rich.
I have acquired wealth and do not need a thing.
But you do not realize that you are rich, pitiful, poor, blind and naked.
I counsel you to buy from me gold refined in fire, so that you can become rich and white clothes to wear, so that you can cover your shameful nakedness and salve to put in your eyes so that you can see.
Those whom I love, I rebuke in discipline.
So be earnest and repent.
Here I am.
I stand at the door and knock.
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person and they with me.
To the one who is victorious, I give the right to sit with me on the throne, just as I was victorious and sat down with my father on his throne.
Whoever has ears, let them hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
Pray with me, please.
Lord, thank you for these words that we have this morning.
To be able to just dig into this, find out a little more about this church at Laodicea.
Father, how
What was happening there could be a vision hindrance to churches today.
So Lord, just bless us as we study your word.
We just pray, Father, that you use this magnified in a way that will draw us all closer to you.
And we give you these and all things in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
You may be seated.
Thank you.
Now, of course, this church is, or this passage of scripture is widely known for being lukewarm.
And if you're not sure what that means,
Jesus said it in his vision to Johnny.
He's lukewarm means that you're neither hot nor cold.
And you'll see that the title of my message today is hot, cold or indifferent, indifferent, meaning lukewarm.
Now there are plenty of reasons listed here to see why this church at Laodicea had become indifferent or lukewarm.
In the world today, I believe that there are churches that fall into this same category.
Do you?
I believe that they're rampant.
I believe that they're all around us.
And in matter of fact, I believe that there are churches right here in Aiken County to fall into this category.
I do.
I believe that they're literally every church, no matter if they're large or small, they should take the time to evaluate where they are.
Am I hot?
Am I cold?
Am I indifferent?
Am I lukewarm?
Are they hot?
Are they cold?
Are they indifferent?
Lukewarm.
That's what we're talking about today.
In any church, whether there be one person or even a group of folks that find themselves indifferent or lukewarm, listen, there needs to be a sense of urgency to correct that issue quickly.
Very quickly.
Literally, there is no time to waste based on what Jesus revealed to John here in this passage that we're reading from today.
Being honest with you this morning, I've seen churches, man, they get all hot.
They get on fire.
They come out of the gate fast for Jesus.
They're hot on fire for the Lord.
And then all too soon due to becoming complacent, which is one of the hindrances that we talked about last week due to becoming complacent, the flame burns out.
They go into this lukewarm state, hot, hot, hot.
All of a sudden bam lukewarm.
I've seen this in churches all my life.
Listen church, I want to tell you right now that I want to see cornerstone on fire.
Listen, white hot for the Lord.
There's no reason that we shouldn't be.
Doesn't even take 20, 20 vision to see how good God has been to us.
God's blessed this church over and over and over again and we should continually be praying and seeking the vision that He has and leading lost people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ with a sense of urgency.
We must continue to be on fire about discipling folks and showing that by our own examples of how to live the Christian life through the way Jesus Christ demonstrates to us.
This is what we're called to do.
This is what he has asked of us.
We must be hot and ready to serve the master who has blessed us with all things.
This church at Laodicea was a lot like some of our churches today.
This church was located in a very wealthy area.
Give you a little history on this church.
They were self-sufficient.
There wasn't very much that they actually needed that they didn't already have.
In fact, like many of our churches today, they had the finest of things.
The city of Laodicea would have been a booming community at that time.
There was a great economy.
There were places to shop.
There were means to shop with.
They had some medical resources that provided an ISAF.
So they had the corner market on an ISAF here for people who had vision problems.
They also produced wool there.
The city was wealthy.
They were used to things living on an upscale around the year 60 AD.
I read that there was a severe earthquake that kind of rocked that area there.
They refused help.
They decided that all of the damage that had been done by the earthquake was something that they could repair on their own.
They had offers from the Roman government, but they said, no, we can do this on our own.
They had one issue and that issue was their water supply.
There was little to no water there unless it was piped in from nearby cities who were, you know, four or five miles away.
By the time it traveled this pipeline and by the time the water reached them, the water was awful.
It was terrible to drink.
It was tipping.
It was what we would call lukewarm water.
And I tell you this, I want to give you this part of the reason because Jesus knew this too.
That's why he told John this.
Jesus described this lukewarm situation to make his point in a way that these folks would understand.
They understood what it meant to have to deal with lukewarm water.
Now notice what Jesus said here.
He referred to himself as the amen.
Do you see that?
Isaiah uses term in chapter 65 verse 16.
Amen in the Hebrew language means truth.
He uses word because he is the faithful and the true witness.
So he was using this word, amen, as being the authority to help them better understand their own spiritual condition.
But this church at Laodicea is a lot like many churches today.
They were not really interested in what he had to say.
They become blind to their own needs.
They were not the least been interested in hearing this truth from the young man.
They were satisfied.
Everybody say satisfied.
They had no need to rely on anything or anyone else.
It seemed that they had everything.
So in their minds, they would ask themselves this question.
If I have no need of everything, why do I need to improve my spiritual condition?
Like many of our churches today,
Those folks were not being very honest with themselves.
They most certainly were not being honest with God.
The church had become so unreliant on God that they had lost something.
They had lost their vigor.
Like their water supply, they had become a closed system.
Their self sufficiency had caused them to leave God out of their vision.
There was little to no spiritual unity between these folks.
Again, they were neither hot nor cold.
They were just indifferent, just existing.
They were not spiritually feeling anything.
They didn't feel that they needed any help from any physical matter.
So they didn't even worry about the matters of the heart or the matters of the Holy Spirit.
Notice verse 15 with me, and I want you to see this.
15 says,
Jesus said, I know your deeds that you're neither hot nor cold.
And listen to what he told him here.
He said, I wish you were either one or the other.
You see that church?
Listen, it's a pretty serious conversation when Jesus himself tells you that he would rather you be completely against him than have you writing the fence.
Can somebody do you hear one?
I'm preaching to you this morning.
Jesus went on in verse 16 to tell them that this lukewarm state that they were in was physically making him sick.
He needed to spew them out of his mouth.
I can't help but wonder about the state of the church today.
It's the state of the church lost its vigor.
Like this church at Laodicea.
Some of us just moving along with not a spiritual care in the world.
Pastor Steve, the church's doing okay.
We're meeting those Sunday mornings.
We say and hate all our friends.
We're half listening to a feel good message.
Then we're going home to wait until next Sunday to see if God's going to prosper us.
Luke one complacent indifferent.
However you define that is what we're talking about this morning.
Listen church and I'm preaching this to you this morning because we cannot have a closed system in our churches today.
We must not have a closed system on our own spiritual development any day.
We must allow the Holy Spirit to move within us now.
I love one John chapter 15 verse five says it says that we have to plug into the spirit, stay plugged into the spirit.
You know the scripture here.
It says, I am divine.
You are the branches.
If you remain in me and I and you, you will bear much fruit apart from me.
What can you do?
Well, you can't do anything.
Has the church at large?
Listen.
Has the church at large lost its vigor for Christ?
Right here this morning between all of us who are God's church, we cannot afford to lose our vigor.
We cannot become satisfied in things that are not of God.
We cannot find ourselves living independently of Jesus Christ.
We cannot become secure while we disregard our need for the Savior who loves us and wants what is best for us.
Listen church, we cannot be lukewarm Christians.
And we must not be a lukewarm church.
God has so much for us that he wants us to be blessed with.
Now listen to what I'm telling you this morning.
Let me ask you a question.
Do you want blessings in your life?
Do you want blessings in God's church?
Then let me tell you, don't ever lose the vigor that you have for God's church in spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The church at Laodicea had lost their vigor and they had also lost something else.
They lost their values.
They had come to a place where they were measuring their success on their own standards, disregarding the standards of God.
See, even though they were the richest of rich, they spiritually had become the poorest of the poor.
That's what John tells us here in his vision from Jesus.
This church was the kind of church that boasted about their wealth.
They boasted about their buildings, their material things.
And it's interesting to see that they had all of these things, yet God himself was ready to vomit them from his mouth.
Their values had become twisted.
They had become comfortable.
1 Peter chapter one, verses six and seven, tell us this.
In all this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have to suffer grief in all kinds of trials.
These have come so that the proven genuineness of your faith, of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire may result in something in praise and in glory and in honor when Jesus Christ is revealed.
This laodicean church, these folks, they had some misguided priorities.
They did listen.
Let's not lose our values for the Lord.
Let's not make what we're able to do about us.
Let us do what we do for him and give him all the glory.
Amen.
Our spiritual value should always point our priorities straight at Jesus.
Not only had the Leo to see in church lost their vigor in their values.
They had also lost their spiritual vision.
Again, using an illustration, they would understand in verse 18, Jesus mentioned their technology and ISAF to help them understand their lack of vision.
They were spiritually blind.
They could not really even see the reality of the situation that they were in.
They had ceased to grow in Christ.
There was no growth there.
So the spiritual vision had become affected as a result of that.
Jesus would implore them to repent and remind him of something.
He said, look, I'm standing at the door.
I'm standing at your heart's door.
He wanted them to see clearly so that they could get their vision back.
Look with me at verse 20.
Here I am.
I stand at the door and knock.
If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with that person and they with me.
Now I don't know about you friends.
But I can hear the urgency of God's statement here.
I'm standing here.
I'm knocking.
Let me in, please.
I want to be Lord of your life.
I'm right here.
All you have to do is open the door.
I will come in.
Prince listen, he wants you to answer the door of your heart.
He wants you to come in.
He wants to come in and give you this vigor.
He wants to give you the values and division that we all so desperately need and need to keep.
He wants our churches to open doors and allow him, listen, allow him to be head of the church.
That's what he wants.
There's such urgency in that statement.
Open up.
I'm standing here.
Listen, we can't wait around in our churches today.
We cannot be complacent.
We cannot be lukewarm.
We can't be indifferent between the choice of either being hot or cold.
We must choose, make the right choice to be on fire for Jesus and then watch him do what he does.
is miraculous ways.
We can't become lukewarm, not even for a second.
Listen, if God's going to build a dynamic house of worship here, then he must have a house full of dynamic worshipers.
We have to be on fire for him in church.
I pray that your spiritual vision for 2026 is one that will be dynamic for the Lord.
I pray that all of our visions will tune in together as a church in order to fulfill what God has for Cornerstone Baptist Church in 2026.
I have no doubt that he has miraculous things.
I have no doubt that he has great things for each and every one of us that he wants us to fulfill this incredible vision that he has for us in this little slice of the area that we live.
And my prayer is that we are passionate about being on fire for the Lord.
Are you passionate for Jesus?
Just ask yourself being lukewarm like this church at Laodicea.
Listen, that isn't an option for us.
It's not.
We must continue to work diligently for him.
And I tell you, again, I believe that cornerstone is in a great place.
I don't believe that we are living in a lukewarm church.
I believe that every church has to contend with becoming complacent.
So this message today is to encourage you.
Keep on fighting to fight.
Keep on doing what you're doing.
Keep on serving the Lord.
Keep on loving on each other.
Keep on seeking Jesus and his will for your life.
Have a passion for it.
So as we get ready to close, let me ask you this.
Where does your passion lie?
What is your vision in 2026?
And to answer that question, your fruit will show how God is using you if you allow him to use you.
By being on fire for him, listen, we're going to see our attendance grow.
We'll see the fruit of our budget.
All of those needs will be met.
They'll be exceeded.
We'll see the talents from each of you that have not been seen before, that all of you have.
You see, God didn't call us to watch from the sideline.
Did he?
No.
He wants us to be hot and on fire for the gospel of Jesus Christ.
The lukewarm church.
That isn't who we aspire to be.
We aspire to be the dynamic church that God created us to be.
Perhaps you're here this morning and you've been so busy, especially through the holidays that you've not really heard that subtle knock that we get from Jesus.
He's knocking.
Listen, he's there.
He wants you.
He wants you to let him in.
If you don't know him today as your Lord and Savior, listen, he's knocking.
Today he's knocking on the door of your heart and he's waiting for you to accept that call.
He wants to live inside you.
He wants to give you purpose for your life.
He wants to take you.
He wants to use you.
He wants to mold you and make you into a person that will live for him.
We have to be willing.
We have to answer the door.
of our hearts.
Are you willing to do that?
You see like this church at Laodicea, we don't have to live indifferent.
We certainly don't have to live cold.
You can live hot and on fire for Jesus.
Every head bow, every eye closed.
This morning only you can answer the question between you and the Lord as to where you are on this subject.
Am I on fire for the Lord?
If I completely turn the eye of the stove off, or am I just kind of hanging out seeing what God has next?
Only you can answer that within your own life.
And I pray right now that you will take that opportunity to evaluate that situation.
Not only should we evaluate that in our own lives, we should evaluate it as a church.
I believe that all of our churches should look at that.
I believe that Cornerstone is on fire for the Lord.
Let's keep it that way, huh?
Let's keep seeking him.
Let's keep watching what it is that he has for us.
If you don't know Jesus today, I invite you to come.
Take me by the hand, I would love to
to tell you about Jesus and how you can go about knowing Him as your personal Savior.
You don't have to leave today not knowing Him.
You come this morning as He would leave you.
Our altar is open.
You can come and pray for those who are on our prayer list, those who we've dropped in our prayer bowl today.
a lost family member, maybe there's a friend of yours that is lost.
What I mean by that is they don't know Jesus is their savior and if they died today, they'd go to hell.
We don't want that for them.
Let's pray for them so that they'll come to the saving knowledge of Jesus.
Would you stand with me?
Suzanne plays, you come as the Lord leads you.
Thank you for coming this morning.
Being part of our worship is always a joy to be with each and every one of you.
So don't forget tonight, choir practice 5.15.
We'd love to have you for choir.
We're gonna be working on a few things and it's not gonna be long.
We're talking about Easter.
Easter is in early April this year.
So we want to have our choir ready to go.
So if you were in our Christmas program, hopefully you'll want to be in our Easter program.
We would love to have you continue to come.
And then the chosen this evening is 6.30.
Of course, our kids will be meeting as well.
So you come this evening as the Lord leads.
And the podcast, let me just mention that to you again.
If you would like to download the app on your phone, it's called Godcaster.
It's free.
And then once you get it downloaded, you can search us by calling it, typing in a cornerstone on demand.
You could find everything that you need to find there.
It's also found on CBCACON.com.
So you could find this there.
So tune into that.
That's going to be a great tool for us.
So thank you so much, brother Rick.